# What's etherum


Ethereum is a cryptocurrency much like Bitcoin, and it has been heralded as **Bitcoins successor**.  Whereas Bitcoin currently has issues scaling with an increasing backlog of transactions, Ethereum is poised to surpass Bitcoin in performance, popularity, and value.  Ethereum was created to help developers like you create applications focused around transferring money or value from one party to another.

So the first thing we need to understand is that when we work with Ethereum, we are working with a network of computers. These networks are used to transfer money between different parties like you and me, and they're also used to store data. The transfer of money and the storage of data are what allows us to create interesting applications, which remember is the entire goal of Ethereum. The second thing to understand is that there are many different Ethereum networks. When you read about Ethereum in the news, you usually hear about, Oh, the price of ether coins is so-and-so dollars, or you might hear about deploying apps to the Ethereum blockchain or the Ethereum network. In reality, there's one main Ethereum network that everyone uses for the deployment of production applications, and it's where ether coins are actually worth US dollars or real money, I should say. However, there are many other Ethereum networks out there. There are test networks, so networks that are used solely for testing code and testing transactions. You can even create your own private Ethereum network on your own computer that is restricted to just you. Or you can make your own network and open it to other people as well. The point is that there's not just one Ethereum network out there. There's many. And even in this course, we will be creating our own little network. Next, networks are formed by one or more nodes, and this goes coupled with the next node note on here. A node is a machine that is running an Ethereum client. When I say machine, I'm talking about a desktop or a laptop or any type of computer, really. So we take a node, we install some software on it, we run that software, and then it connects to an Ethereum network and starts becoming a part of the network overall. All these networks connect or seem. All these nodes connect together to form the actual network. Next, anyone can run a node. So there's not just some specific set of people out there or important companies who run nodes on the real Ethereum network. No, anyone can create one. You can create a node. I can create a node. All we have to do is turn on our laptop, download this client software and run it and boom, we have a locally hosted node. Each node that we create, or I should say each node on the network has a full and separate copy of the blockchain. We haven't talked about the blockchain too much just yet, but that will be a huge topic of discussion throughout the course. So right now, let me give you a very basic description of the blockchain. We're going to say for right now that we can think of the blockchain as being like a database that stores a record of every movement of money between different parties. And it's also where we store data. Again, the key thing to keep in mind here is that the blockchain can be considered to be a simple database and nothing else.